back when this channel first got started
believe it or not the main complaint I
heard in relation to the actual
political theory the real hard political
science content that I'm presenting here
was that I was dividing the community
and this is I mean it's an interesting
perception of what I'm doing in and the
consequences
I do actually agree to some extent
because whenever we switch from a
discussion of political problems to
political solutions things get divisive
quick in fact I would go so far as to
say that in principle in the context of
organization activism running a movement
problems unify people whereas solutions
divide them paradoxical as it may seem
that's how it is give you an example you
could form a political movement simply
based around protesting against coal
power and you'd unify all kinds of
people from all kinds of different
political perspectives and the only
thing they have to have in common is the
idea that coal power is bad and they
want to get it on the streets and get on
the TV news use whatever means are
available to them to see public
perception of coal power as a problem
and to raise coal power as a as a
political priority right the idea that
we should reduce or eliminate reliance
on coal burning power plants ok second
unify all kinds of people but you're
only basing your movement on the
declaration of the problem think about
how profoundly different the whole
process is and who the people are who
will join how they relate to each other
and who will donate money and who won't
think about a profoundly different as if
instead from day one your foundation is
defined as promoting nuclear power to
replace coal power that coal power
should be phased out and replace the
nuclear power plants
divisive when you just base your
movement on declaring the problem on
complaining about the problem basically
that unites people and when you build
your movement around a solution it
divides people solutions are divisive
all right
and I would say this is even true I'm
gonna pick now I think the least
politically divisive example I can think
of and yet it still is in this
fundamental way divisive let's say I
moved back to Canada
I'm living in Victoria BC and I decide
you know what I think it's really
important for me as a vegan to start a
small foundation small charity and for
us to have four vegan hotdog stands so
that there's a vegan option at four
crucial points in the city at the bus
station downtown at the Harbor you know
what I mean the few places Victoria
doesn't have a subway system you know
what I really want to get this together
and we're gonna employ some university
students to be part time selling these
vegan hotdogs or vegan hamburgers though
they are this is what the foundation is
gonna do okay and that's not
controversial that's not like taking a
stand on vivisection or taking a stand
on feeding cats cat food or even leather
shoes or fur coats this is the least the
least divisive example I can think of
but from day one that will divide people
and it will in effect discipline your
whole organization who gets engaged how
they get engaged and so on right so
they're all gonna be some people they're
gonna tell you to your face angrily
they're gonna say hey this isn't real
vegan activism they're gonna say I don't
support this this isn't my idea of
activism they're people gonna say you
know their idea of vegan activism is
going to Parliament and screaming
holding a placard or taking off their
clothes being naked in a public square
and putting fake blood all over
themselves and pretending to be a
slaughtered animal you know they're
gonna they're gonna tell you that's
that's the culture I come from Canadians
are not know see about that kind of
thing people are gonna tell you to your
face
this isn't legit activism
and if you do it as a foundation if
you're incorporated as a non-profit of
some kind as a charity there are people
are going to tell you they don't think
that's a legitimate charity they don't
think that selling vegan hotdogs to
promote veganism is a legitimate thing
to do anybody people are gonna tell you
you are gonna hear it right but this is
a solution however humble we are
starting off by saying look one reason
why people aren't vegan or why vegans
struggle them maintain their veganism is
exactly that they don't have a vegan
option when they get off the bus at the
bus station eight and a few other
crucial points and there are hot dogs
and pizza and everything but not nothing
is vegan and of course also implicitly
this is just promoting veganism itself
you can sell these hot dogs or
hamburgers and have a leaflet you know
in the in the container with it or what
have you and hey you know what it's the
visit of in other ways I mean you know
probably some vegans are gonna scream at
you because you're selling hot dogs in
disposable Styrofoam container they're
gonna say hey this is not bad for
ecology and they're gonna scream at you
and tell you you're giving veganism
venting so even this example which is
the least political I can think of is
divisive because it starts with a
solution it's centered on a solution
right and in this case it's a solution
that we can we can put into practice the
day after tomorrow immediately it's not
it's not very very far distance okay so
I'm making this video partly response to
two messages I just got from two patreon
supporters thank you guys very much I'm
happy to hear from you of course and
they pay they pay for the privilege to
have me read whatever email they're
sending me here with in patreon so one
is guy called Nicolas whom I have
replied to many times before and Nicolas
is writing to me about how depressing it
is to try to organize real and
meaningful vegan activism on a
university campus I think there's a big
misconception that somehow universities
are laboratories of ideas where veganism
is easier and more effective and that
there are natural but you know the
reality is that in many ways activism on
a campus is is uniquely bleak depressing
and dead-ended partly because you're
working with people who only going to be
there for two years
they're gone right there's no sense of
permanent commitment to that place the
vast majority of students they finish
maybe they get interested in veganism in
their second or third year and then they
finish the diploma and then they're gone
so it's it's quite an unnatural
institutional context and it's also the
case that you're not really living in a
real city or real town or even a real
business you're living in an artificial
pseudo city created by the university
itself which is a for-profit machine
controlled by corporate interests so I
mean you know he's talking about how the
Nicholas is writing to me talking about
how depressing it is to hand out
pamphlets and hold short discussions
trying to promote a meatless Monday
campaign which is backed by Chartwells
Chartwells as a for-profit corporation
does a contract for the university to
exclusively provide food and he says
telling students eat more from this one
place in the Campus Center with mediocre
meatless options only on Mondays in the
hope that Chartwells will notice that
there's money in healthy food is quite
depressing and half-assed as you can
imagine close quote
anyway I may I may have to make another
video we're spawning - - Nicholas's
concerns but Nick I mean you know he
ends this by saying I really appreciate
you communicating with me because I see
myself as reaching around in the dark
yeah I mean III hear you and I feel you
man you know these questions that I talk
about on my channel some of you watching
this may think that this is political
theory for the sake of theory it's not
this stuff is not very far removed from
our real lives and quite you know
practical decisions that people like
Nicholas have to make and almost every
idea I've talked about on this channel
that started maybe with a theoretical
discussion now is a real part of my life
as an aspiring being political activist
right like you know the idea of doing a
vegan children's story book was talked
about a couple years ago I forget more
than a year ago
on this channel and now it's a real part
of my life I've written this story I
have an illustrator it's been translated
into many languages so as one form of
vegan activism this compact
with my circumstances writing and
illustrating and publishing a children's
storybook sorry I'm not the illustrator
but I'm I've written a contract with you
know with a professional illustrator so
we're pursuing that as a project this is
not this is not pie in the sky
unattainable ideology we're talking
about here and even an example like
running a hotdog stand I was really
talking to my girlfriend about that you
know we're saying look in the future
choosing we're gonna live you know this
city versus that city ideas like that
about actually being in food services
those are still a meaningful part of my
life and we talk about them as things we
may really try to do in the future so
you know and my own education situation
be a long conversation but I've looked
at everything and when I say I looked at
I've gotten on the phone with university
directors your heads of departments and
I've looked at applying for everything
from entering culinary college to become
a vegan chef or learn how to run and
manage a restaurant you know as a form
of activism for the for the cause for
the movement over - you know Dietetics
and nutrition getting a diploma in that
becoming a formally registered dietician
you know but just a couple weeks ago my
girlfriend I was talking with that in
depth you know and I mean now one
outstanding option for me would be
getting a degree in something like
public administration public
administration means bureaucracy but if
you actually want to run a foundation a
non-profit link to veganism ecology etc
having that kind of expertise could be
very valuable so all these things for me
they're not theoretical discussions put
it this way their theories that
intersect with decisions I make in my
real life in a very meaningful way and I
think the main difference to me and most
of my audience is just that during these
few years when I've been on YouTube my
own life has been so malleable and so
rootless where I didn't know where I was
going to be living six months in the
future
and I didn't know even what I was gonna
be studying University so even though I
was in the university already I was
looking at okay I'm gonna change my
major - this is gonna change my version
of that so I've been at a
crossroads over such a long period of
time that again that's why this I think
so much theoretical discussion on this
channel and I mean again I do get
questions people like Nicholas who are
really asking for advice and guidance on
how they can take these ideas and be
more effective and do more meaningful
activism in their own lives and I value
that like you know it's wonderful to get
that kind of email okay but on the other
hand the vast driven audience never
asked those questions because they
already have a job they have a career or
they're enrolled in a full-time program
of Education and they know exactly how
few options they've got like they know
they're stuck living in Pittsburgh of a
couple of I think I have three patreon
supporters from Pittsburgh shout it's
you guys oh they're living in Pittsburgh
this is the job they do five days a week
this is how much time they have these
are the local organizations that exist
and they can look at option A or option
B and if they don't like them then
there's a huge step up in commitment in
time and energy to creating your own
option C right so a lot of people feel
very very limited and they they're
already familiar with the options
they've got so they're not asking me
what their options are they already know
right and of course there are advantages
and disadvantages to being in that kind
of situation when you talk to somebody
like a medical doctor you know who's
vegan or supports veganism you might
think wow you're a medical doctor you're
in this fantastic position to really do
something meaningful for veganism as an
activist but then you hear from their
perspective and they feel they have
absolutely no scope to do anything there
so pinned down by their job and by their
other commitments in life they feel they
have they have absolutely no scope to no
scope to change the world noscoped even
change no schedule so I also in response
my earlier video I got this question
from Olivia Olivia says she empathizes
with what I'm saying what I'm saying in
my critique of pamphlet hang and my
critique of attention-seeking protests
she understands what I'm saying about
the importance of solution based
activism versus problem based activism
right
however she complains that I was too
vape ed and too fleeting in stating what
I really believe this solution of the
problem is ok if it is not protesting or
pamphlet hang then what you have spoken
about lobbying and working
collaboratively with special interest
groups of the past but instead of
talking for the problems the movement
today in the past five years care to
elaborate elaborate specifically about
the steps stages processes that need to
be taken the future and why you believe
these to be effective okay Olivia great
question um look I have over 500 videos
on this channel at more than 20 hours of
discussion of exactly this issue so I
can allude to that in brief but I'm not
going to touch the question I am gonna
give you a new answer now there are two
scales thinking small and thinking big
okay you're wrong when I say I didn't
mention the solution I mention you the
winners are the winners are PCRM and
what a PCRM do lawsuits okay you may be
watching this video in Sweden or Iceland
or England or Japan I do have a couple
viewers from Japan showed it to them why
not why not do exactly what PCRM already
did not in the same topic maybe your
focus isn't dietary science
maybe it isn't nutrition guidelines why
can't you take the government to court
why can't you have your own lawsuit why
can't you put together a foundation
that's successful that influential that
respected that important you can you can
sit down today and make a flowchart of
the steps of exactly what you need to
accomplish that over the next 20 years
okay
they ain't got nothing you ain't got it
doesn't take a genius doesn't take
millions of dollars it'll take a ton of
hard work but for you in your lane you
can be the next PCRM and of course what
you do will be completely different
maybe you're going to be the PCRM of
leather it's mind-blowing how terrible
leather is leather it's not just
terrible in terms
the cruelty to animals the environmental
impacts even the human rights and human
health impacts chromium hexane the
impacts for the workers maybe you can
put together a foundation that's just as
good as PCRM and has the same methods
launching lawsuits scientifically valid
publications maybe you can be the
equivalent to PCRM tackling the leather
issue okay please somebody somebody now
take that idea from me take it and rub
we don't need one piece erm we need 220
PC RMS and we need a group like PCRM in
Japan and in Iceland and in England and
in Sweden right we got we need it in
Canada ok so yes I did I did give
positive examples like pcr MP CRM
Physicians Committee for Responsible
medicine right but are we thinking big
or we thinking small I was talking to my
girlfriend not too long ago but the
possibility that she and I together
could go back to University and become
formally credited as dieticians and one
of things I said in conclusion was long
conversation but I said look you know
what the problem is this is thinking
small and the bottleneck is not that we
don't have enough dieticians who support
veganism on planet earth the problem is
those dieticians need a charitable
foundation or even a business that will
go to bat for them and will enable them
to do the kind of work they really
aspire to do we have all these vegan
dieticians but they're stuck in a
dead-end job where they feel they have a
conflict of interest where they work in
a crummy hospital or a retirement home
and they can't teach preach practice the
kind of nutritional science that they
both believe in ethically and they know
they can back up with current
science-based medical facts so you know
the bottleneck is actually that those
people need an employer they need they
need basically an agency that can enable
them to do the jobs they passionately
want to do and so they can get out from
under the thumb of you know the usual
employers that control them so you're
thinking big start that foundation ok if
you want the way forward yes so these
are two great examples I've had other
examples think
where did vegans go on vacation you know
you absolutely need vegans working in
tourism where do vegans retire in terms
of retirement homes all the talking of
done about cycle of life big ideas big
scale long term and then the flip side
of that is if we're talking small scale
small amounts of money short amounts of
time then that's exactly the stuff of
already been talking about earlier in
this video
that can be a vegan hotdog stand that
can be a vegan pancakes and that can be
publishing a children's book right which
is exactly the stuff I'm doing because
of the limits in my own life okay so I
do believe ok I do believe I've set out
for you
positive next steps for the movement on
both the grandiose scale and on a small
scale but here's the real benefit once
you engage in that sort of political
process you find out who you can work
with and you find who you can't you
build the friendships you build the
connections that really are the basis
for a movement and are gonna be the
basis for meaningful relationships until
the day you die and sadly you're also
gonna probably make some enemies and
you're gonna work with some people and
you figure out after a short period of
time you can't work with this guy at all
etc etc long boring videos have just
been posted by Anna Scanlon Anna Scanlon
has a lawsuit and she brought another
person in to get involved with the
lawsuit and then this person really
ended up disrupting her lawsuit in a
really negative way I'm not gonna tell
the story details are not worth knowing
ok now the moral of that story from my
perspective this is Anna Scanlon
bringing Renee into her lawsuit chance
of having to kick her out of the lawsuit
ok you know there's an old saying I
think it's in French I think this is an
old saying in French you know you never
really know somebody until you have to
share an inheritance with them if you're
talking about a legal dispute if you're
talking about the level of commitment
and cooperation the any of these ideas
big or small entail running a hot dog
stand running a foundation like PCRM the
level of try
just reliance on others level of mutual
respect that's involved is tremendously
high and that's really much more
important than the money right feeling
that you're working with other people
you respect and they respect you you're
not wasting their time they're not you
know that's the most precious thing of
all and in the process whether it's
whether the partner to do is tiny or
huge that's where you find out who you
really can work with and who you can't
and in some ways you even find out who
you really are what you're capable of
what your limits are okay so that sense
of proving yourself that's the one
that's the one value here we can never
really quantify and that I think that's
why we need both small big steps and
small that's why so many of my own hopes
for the future veganism hang on these
seemingly absurd examples because if you
don't do that if you don't step away
from you know that this self-defeating
pattern of on the one hand grandiose and
narcissistic YouTube videos on the other
hand you know vengeful angry Facebook
comments you know that's how most vegans
that's what they consider activism you
know what I mean
education and outreach do you on the one
hand lifestyle videos and the other hand
the kind of perpetual war of worlds in
this digital demo of credit that that
will never have this process of where
you prove who you are to others and
others proof of their to you and you
find out who you really can trust enough
to co-sign on a lawsuit with in building
a foundation ultimately you're building
relationships with maybe five or ten
people that's I mean that's the human
resources element of it and that's the
crucial next step we all need to take
for veganism on a larger scale than
before say again problems tend to unify
people solutions tend to divide people
when you switch to solution based
organization activism etc you're gonna
find out that everything is way more
divisive than you thought it was but
that divisiveness itself you can come to
value as a positive thing because it
disciplines your movement and our
current organization gives it a clearer
sense of purpose